README.md, before:

# kubeflow-eks-terraform

   Deploy kubeflow on AWS EKS with terraform

## Install Terraform opensource binary:
   Get the terraform zip package from website : https://www.terraform.io/downloads.html

### For Linux platform:
```
     wget https://releases.hashicorp.com/terraform/0.13.4/terraform_0.13.4_linux_amd64.zip
     unzip terraform_0.13.4_linux_amd64.zip
     mv ./terraform /usr/local/bin/
```

## Run terraform and start build resources on AWS:
   Quick start:
```
    terraform init
    terraform apply
    
    The values like VPC name and IP scope, EKS Cluster name etc. are defined in **values.auto.tfvars**
    Please edit in order to specify the values, and they will be automatically applied by terraform.
```

### Some information about the terraform stack:  
   The stack will create:
```
     VPC
     Public and private subnet
     Nat gateway
     Internet gateway
     EKS cluster
     EKS node groups with EC2 worker nodes
     Autoscaling groups for EC2 worker nodes
```

## After EKS cluster created by terraform, kubeflow building will be launched: 
   Once the EKS cluster is ready, terraform will trigger local scripts to fetch kubeflow codes and deploy it into EKS:
```
    resource "null_resource" "deploy_kubeflow" {

      depends_on = [
        module.eks
      ]

      provisioner "local-exec" {
        command = "aws --region ${var.region} eks update-kubeconfig --name ${local.cluster_name}"
      }

      provisioner "local-exec" {
        command = "sh deploy_kubeflow.sh"
      }

    }
```
### What is in the script deploy_kubeflow.sh:
   Prepare the environment:
```
    Install kubectl
    Install kfctl
    Get and apply kubeflow deployment codes
    Create Network Load Balancer(NLB) on AWS
    Create ingress in istio namespace
```

## Some points to pay attention:
1. SSL certificate and Route 53 records pointing to NLB need to be handled manually.

2. Host name is defined in kubeflow-ingress.yaml:
```
[...]
   spec:
     rules:
     - host: kubeflow.terraform.xxxxx.com         <---- Here's an example.
       http:
         paths:
         - backend:
             serviceName: istio-ingressgateway
             servicePort: 80
[...]
```
3. We may have an issue with IAM users that didn't initially create the EKS cluster, they always got error: You must be logged in to the server (Unauthorized) error when using kubectl (even though aws-iam-authenticator gave them some token).

   To get rid of this issue, we have some steps here:
   
    Install aws-iam-authenticator: 
   
    #curl -o aws-iam-authenticator https://amazon-eks.s3.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/1.17.9/2020-08-04/bin/linux/amd64/aws-iam-authenticator
    
    Add the blocks as below into $HOME/.kube/config      
```     
     e.g.
     #vi /root/.kube/config
     [...]
     - name: arn:aws:eks:us-east-1:xxxxxxxx:cluster/xxxxx
       user:
         exec:
           apiVersion: client.authentication.k8s.io/v1alpha1
           args:
           - token
           - -i
           - xxxxxx
           command: aws-iam-authenticator
     [...]
     
```
   
   Choose either of following methods to add IAM USER ARN into cluster ConfigMap aws-auth:
   
   a. Edit kubernetes configmap after cluster created:

      kubectl edit -n kube-system configmap/aws-auth

   b. Add value to variables "map_users" when apply this terraform stack:

    Here's an example:
```
    variable "manage_aws_auth" {
      description = "Whether to apply the aws-auth configmap file."
      default     = true                                           <---- Here must put "true"
    }  
     
    variable "map_users" {
      description = "Additional IAM users to add to the aws-auth configmap. See examples/basic/variables.tf for example format."
      type = list(object({
        userarn  = string
        username = string
        groups   = list(string)
      }))
      
      default = [
        {
          userarn  = "arn:aws:iam::66666666666:user/user1"         <---- Put the iam user arn here
          username = "user1"
          groups   = ["system:masters"]
        },
        {
          userarn  = "arn:aws:iam::66666666666:user/user2"         <---- Put the iam user arn here
          username = "user2"
          groups   = ["system:masters"]
        },
      ]
    }
    
```

Commit message:

Update README.md with helm integration and put all deploy scripts into a single folder

README.md, after:

# kubeflow-eks-terraform

   Deploy kubeflow on AWS EKS with terraform

## Install Terraform opensource binary:
   Get the terraform zip package from website : https://www.terraform.io/downloads.html

### For Linux platform:
```
     wget https://releases.hashicorp.com/terraform/0.13.4/terraform_0.13.4_linux_amd64.zip
     unzip terraform_0.13.4_linux_amd64.zip
     mv ./terraform /usr/local/bin/
```

## Run terraform and start build resources on AWS:
   Quick start:
```
    terraform init
    terraform apply
    
    The values like VPC name and IP scope, EKS Cluster name, node instance size etc. are defined in **values.auto.tfvars**
    Please edit it to specify the values, and they will be automatically applied by terraform.
```

### Some information about the terraform stack:  
   The stack will create:
```
     VPC
     Public and private subnet
     Nat gateway
     Internet gateway
     EKS cluster
     EKS node groups with EC2 worker nodes
     Autoscaling groups for EC2 worker nodes
     AWS Load Balancer integrated with ingress-nginx in EKS(Deployed by helm, please check detail in scripts/deploy_kubeflow.sh)
```

## After EKS cluster created by terraform, kubeflow building will be launched: 
   Once the EKS cluster is ready, terraform will trigger local scripts to fetch kubeflow codes and deploy it into EKS:
```
    resource "null_resource" "deploy_kubeflow" {

      depends_on = [
        module.eks
      ]

      provisioner "local-exec" {
        command = "aws --region ${var.region} eks update-kubeconfig --name ${local.cluster_name}"
      }

      provisioner "local-exec" {
        command = "sh scripts/deploy_kubeflow.sh"
      }

    }
```
### What is in the script deploy_kubeflow.sh:
   Prepare the environment:
```
    Install kubectl
    Install kfctl
    Install helm
    Get and apply kubeflow deployment codes
    Create Network Load Balancer(NLB) integrated with ingress-nginx on AWS
    Create ingress in istio namespace
```

## Some points to pay attention:
1. SSL certificate and Route 53 records pointing to NLB need to be handled manually.

2. Host name is defined in kubeflow-ingress.yaml:
```
[...]
   spec:
     rules:
     - host: kubeflow.terraform.xxxxx.com         <---- Here's an example.
       http:
         paths:
         - backend:
             serviceName: istio-ingressgateway
             servicePort: 80
[...]
```
3. We may have an issue with IAM users that didn't initially create the EKS cluster, they always got error: You must be logged in to the server (Unauthorized) error when using kubectl (even though aws-iam-authenticator gave them some token).

   To get rid of this issue, we have some steps here:
   
    Install aws-iam-authenticator: 
   
    #curl -o aws-iam-authenticator https://amazon-eks.s3.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/1.17.9/2020-08-04/bin/linux/amd64/aws-iam-authenticator
    
    Add the blocks as below into $HOME/.kube/config      
```     
     e.g.
     #vi /root/.kube/config
     [...]
     - name: arn:aws:eks:us-east-1:xxxxxxxx:cluster/xxxxx
       user:
         exec:
           apiVersion: client.authentication.k8s.io/v1alpha1
           args:
           - token
           - -i
           - xxxxxx
           command: aws-iam-authenticator
     [...]
     
```
   
   Choose either of following methods to add IAM USER ARN into cluster ConfigMap aws-auth:
   
   a. Edit kubernetes configmap after cluster created:

      kubectl edit -n kube-system configmap/aws-auth

   b. Add value to variables "map_users" when apply this terraform stack:

    Here's an example:
```
    variable "manage_aws_auth" {
      description = "Whether to apply the aws-auth configmap file."
      default     = true                                           <---- Here must put "true"
    }  
     
    variable "map_users" {
      description = "Additional IAM users to add to the aws-auth configmap. See examples/basic/variables.tf for example format."
      type = list(object({
        userarn  = string
        username = string
        groups   = list(string)
      }))
      
      default = [
        {
          userarn  = "arn:aws:iam::66666666666:user/user1"         <---- Put the iam user arn here
          username = "user1"
          groups   = ["system:masters"]
        },
        {
          userarn  = "arn:aws:iam::66666666666:user/user2"         <---- Put the iam user arn here
          username = "user2"
          groups   = ["system:masters"]
        },
      ]
    }
    
```
